# CSCI_Social-Good

Problem:  Starting in early February 2020, 59 airline companies suspended or limited flights to mainland China, and several countries—including the United States, Russia, Australia, and Italy—have imposed government-issued travel restrictions. These travel restrictions have had a negative impact especially on air travel - both domestic and international. For example, it has become extremely difficult for international students like me to travel to our home countries or travel to the United States from our home countries. It has also become a challenge for patients with complicated health conditions that require traveling abroad for surgeries.

The following news article by Aljazeera outlined the travel situation throughout the world- https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2020/6/3/coronavirus-travel-restrictions-border-shutdowns-by-country With an unexpected increase in the number of active cases in some areas and a plateau of active cases in the other, it has become very overwhelming for the common man to keep track of flight availability in case of an emergency since each airline has reacted to the travel restrictions differently. From 2015 to 2019 the industry saw a boost with an average of 30 billion US dollars profit which soon went into a loss of 85 billion US dollars. I would like to build a visualization dashboard to highlight the level of pandemic impact on travel frequency. 

Project Idea: I would like to propose a free-to-use solution that enables easier and accurate information availability of air travel during the ongoing global pandemic. My idea is to create a user-friendly dashboard/web-application targeted to the general public that allows a user to input source & destination information along with an intended time-period for travel. This dashboard/web-application should display graphical data (including maps and charts), quantified metrics to show how easy it is to travel to the destination, gravity of coronavirus in the destination location, number of flights in the desired travel path, etc.
Originality of my project would be shown by the use of region wise comparison among- Africa, Asia, North America, South America, Europe, Oceanic regions. This project will compare and display covid-19 cases, whether or not it is safe to travel to either of the regions, etc. I will display a comparative analysis of rising covid-19 cases against the change in the number of flights flying across regions. I will achieve this by simplifying the data into visualizations. 


Societal Impact: With the help of this project, it will be a lot easier for people to understand the present scenario of the COVID-19 spread throughout the world and how it may impact the decision of their travel or how it may aid in their travel plans. As a Computer Science student myself, I am curious to see how  this information can be put to use to create more detailed reports for analysis and data-driven decision making in the future.
